Good morning.
Welcome to session 132,
Implementing Networking
Using the Cocoa Classes.
My name is Chris Parker.
I work on the Cocoa Frameworks
Team in the foundation and mainly
our foundation and core foundation.
But we're going to be talking a lot today
about working on networking in Cocoa.
As a quick, just a quick show of hands,
how many people have actually used like
the NS stream classes or CF network,
stuff like that?
Okay.
So some of this will be fairly
comfortable for a lot of you.
We'll talk today about a lot
of the aspects of working
with networking in Cocoa.
So we'll talk about how to write
some basic TCP servers and clients.
Using Bonjour effectively,
publishing on the net.
When to use what classes?
Cocoa doesn't cover all
of the networking stack,
partly because there's a lot of stuff
to control down there that's going
to be particular to your application.
So we'll show some basic examples
on using CF socket and then
wrapping that using NS stream.
We'll show some examples later of
NSURL and actually using a little
bit of CF HTTP message to store some
state in an example we'll do later.
The examples that we'll build
up will start fairly simple.
We'll work all the way up through to an
HTTP server example and then we'll do
some more complicated client side stuff.
So let's start with the really
basic clients and servers.
The example code that's on your
download image has a TCP server,
a Cocoa Echo example that
contains a TCP server,
which is a simple code that's
on your download image.
It has a TCP server,
a Cocoa Echo example,
and a Cocoa Echo service.
So it's a simple wrapper around the
CF socket to listen for incoming
connections and then it'll go ahead
and publish a port both on IPv4 and V6.
And this will advertise with
Bonjour automatically and it's
by default implemented through
delegate-based connection handling.
So when a connection comes in,
the delegate will be told about it.
But you can override that.
It's designed to be subclassable.
So you can use this in your own code.
The Cocoa Echo example is
just a simple Echo service.
So it's very similar to the one
that we're using in the client.
The server just subclasses TCP server
and it manages connection pairs.
So we'll show you how that
looks in the code in a minute.
And the client is just a
simple GUI application.
It has a browser for services and then
we'll be able to click on some fields
and send some text and get it back.
You'll notice some things in the code
that these things do and don't do.
So what they do is they offer
services on both V4 and V6.
And we'd like to encourage you to do
this in your own programs as well,
especially since the local network
provides a lot of services.
browsing the Discovery Bonjour stuff,
all publishes addresses
on both V4 and V6.
It'll show you how to publish the
stuff with Bonjour and it actually
handles events as asynchronous events.
So we're not going to poll
these streams for events.
We're going to wait for the stream
to tell us that something's happening
and respond to those events.
What they don't do is treat
IPv4 and IPv6 differently.
If you're listening on those endpoints,
you're just going to be getting data,
right?
So whether it's a V4 address
or a V6 address isn't terribly
interesting but we're going to
show you how to do both of that.
It doesn't show the UI for
the Cocoa Echo example.
It won't show the user
host names or ports,
right?
So for Bonjour browsing,
especially if I'm clicking on things,
your user is mainly interested in
being able to just connect to the
service and use it rather than,
"Oh, well, it's on this host and it's
on this port and you have to
connect to it in this way." No,
they just want to click
on it and start going.
And I'm actually not resolving
the discovered services.
There's some new API in
Tiger that lets me do that.
So... You'll see in the Echo example
that we use code from all the way
down in BSD sockets up through into
some stuff from Core Foundation.
We use very little in CF Network.
We use a lot of stuff in
Foundation and then the
Cocoa Echo example wraps those classes.
So we're using some
stuff from BSD sockets.
CF socket from Core Foundation we
used to actually create things.
And then we'll use NSInputStream
and NSOutputStream as the primary
way to talk to those services.
The Echo server, right,
servers do two things pretty much.
They set up to listen for
incoming connections and they
manage those connection pairs.
So the Echo server,
when it handles a new connection,
it's going to get an
incoming connection request.
From there,
it will create a pair of streams.
It will create an input stream
and an output stream to the remote
side that's connecting and those
will be put into a dictionary.
I'm just using a dictionary here in
order to manage these connections.
We'll show a new,
different way to do that
The Echo Server, once it handles data,
this becomes the delegate of the streams.
So every time an event happens,
the delegate of the stream
gets a callback on the
stream handle event method.
Okay, so incoming data comes in on the
NS input stream for the source
and we get stream handle event.
And the Echo Server turns around
and looks up the corresponding
NS output stream and writes that
data right out to the output stream.
Okay.
Let's take a look at this in code.
Could I demo one, please?
I have the Echo server here,
which if I blow this font size up,
we'll see that it's just printing out
a little diagnostic here that says
it's starting the server on this port,
but that's mainly for my
convenience when I was debugging.
If I run the Cocoa Echo client here,
we'll see that the server is,
the service is discovered
as demo Echo service.
And actually if I kill this here,
I should see it disappear.
So there's Bonjour running.
Fire that up again.
So we have a new demo echo service.
And when I click on it,
if I just type up here in the top box,
is there an echo in here?
And here, return,
I get that response back from the server.
So it's a very simple example.
Let me take a look at the code here.
The TCP server itself is
pretty straightforward.
We have a delegate object
that it keeps track of,
some state about what domain and
name and type we're going to be
using to publish this service,
and we actually keep track of
the V4 and V6 sockets as well.
There are some basic accessors.
The main event here is handle
new connection from address.
Every time a new connection comes in,
this method is going to get called with
the input and output streams for that.
We'll be able to use that as
a subclassing point later on.
By default,
this is designed to hand a TCP server
did receive connection from address input
stream and output stream to the delegate.
So let's take a look at where
we listen for connections.
This start code here is where
we actually set things up.
So you'll see here at CF socket create,
we're creating two sockets.
One's a V4 socket, one's a V6 socket.
We're passing the V4 and V6 INET families
here as what we want to listen for.
And we're telling the socket
create call that we want to be
able to get callbacks on the,
for any accept events that come in.
And we'll be called back on
this accept callback function.
We try and handle some errors well,
providing an NSError that can
be bubbled up to the user.
And we set some
configuration options here.
We set up the V4 endpoint.
We're letting this,
this has the option to let the
kernel choose a port for us.
Once we get through all of this and
get everything successfully set up,
we'll actually do the same
thing for the V6 endpoint.
And this is all the same code.
So you'll see some code that does
some stuff for the V4 endpoint,
some code that does some things,
the same things for the V6 endpoint.
And then once we get down
here to a success state,
we'll be able to get the V4 endpoint.
Once the two sources are set up,
we schedule these on the run loop
and then in the main program we'll
actually start going on the run loop.
If we were given a type,
we'll go ahead and publish this
on Bonjour and that's just a
matter of making sure that we're
publishing the correct domain with
the right name and then we just
alloc and init the net service and
go ahead and tell it to publish.
Okay, so the TCP server just
starts all this stuff up.
It's a fairly straightforward class.
And if we stop the service,
then we have to stop the net service,
invalidate the sockets,
and just basically clean
up after ourselves.
Let's take a look at
dispatching that callback.
When we get the accept event,
the TCP server accept callback
is a function that gets called
through CF as a result of the
CF socket getting an accept event.
And we just go through and set up
some additional information to be
able to pass it off to the client.
You can go take a look at some of
the documentation for things like
get peer name and what this is doing.
And that's all on the developer CD.
We create a pair with socket here with
CF stream create pair with socket.
But once these streams are created,
we're going to take advantage of the
toll-free bridge and start referring
to those as NS input streams and
NS output streams once this gets moving.
So, let's see.
And here is where this callback calls
handle new connection from address.
And this is where we can override.
So if we look at that.
This is pretty simple.
Let me make this bigger.
Get a little more text
on the screen here.
All this does is if the delegate
implements the appropriate method,
we go ahead and call it.
So this will be where we subclass
things in the Echo server.
So the TCP server class is just a basic
wrapper for all the stuff that you have
to do to get a server up and running.
So let's take a look at
the Cocoa Echo server here.
Just fire things up on the Echo server.
We have a main function here,
which just gives it a, we set up a name,
a type, and we just ask it to start.
So this is the TCP server start
method that gets fired up.
Whenever this gets a new connection,
okay, we're actually overriding
in Cocoa Echo server
use the pop-up here.
"Handle new connection from address."
So this is where we override this
to do our own connection management,
and I'm just creating a dictionary
if it's not already there,
and I put the--and I set up the
input stream and the output stream.
This method just goes ahead
and it opens the streams up,
schedules them on a run loop
and it also sets this class as
the delegate of these streams,
okay?
And that's all the setup input
stream and output stream method does.
But now every time an event
occurs on one of these streams,
this instance is going to get callbacks
on the stream handle event method.
And that's, oddly enough,
the next method in the example code.
Whenever the input stream
has bytes available,
you get an NSStreamHasBytesAvailable
event as the stream event parameter
here to stream handle event.
And all we do here is look up the
corresponding output stream and then
read in everything from the input stream
because it has those bytes available.
And we turn around and we just write
them back out on the output stream.
And if the end is encountered,
then we do some cleanup here.
So every time I hit one of the, you know,
when I type in the text and I hit return,
the server is getting that data from the
client and this is where it handles that.
And in the client,
the client code is this
echo client app delegate.
So when things start up,
we just start a browser going.
And I'm using bindings here in order
to get the stuff into the service list,
so you can play around with that.
But when a server is clicked,
we actually use this-- when somebody
clicks on a server in that table view,
we use this selected service,
get input stream, output stream.
So if anybody's looked at
the picture sharing examples,
when we wrote that,
we had to go through and construct
a file handle and hook it up on an
FD and do all this stuff in order to
be able to set up all the callbacks.
This is a one-line method in order
to get the two streams to the other
end of this discovered service.
So you can just call that and
get the streams immediately.
And then we go ahead
and open those streams.
So and now, once again,
we're seeing stream handle events.
So we get the event in here
when we get bytes available.
We go ahead and read those in
until we see a carriage return.
And at that point, we get
Create the string, set the string value,
put it in that bottom field,
and display the result to the user.
And then if the remote side closes it,
then we just clean up and
close these streams up.
So the HTTP,
the Cocoa Echo server rather,
also does the sending the text when I hit
Send Text Method.
When I hit the return
key in the top field,
this actually just gathers
up the string and writes
everything to the output string.
We actually sit there and write
everything out until it's done.
And that's it for the TCP server.
If I could have the slides back, please.
So again, it's been a while since
we've seen this slide,
but what they do is they try very
carefully to do things on both v4 and
v6 and publish stuff on Bonjour so that
your users can discover these things
without having to go to too much trouble.
We're not blocking the run
loop because we're going to
handle events asynchronously,
but they're also not
doing specific things.
And one of them is not resolving
the discovered services,
right?
Causing too much network traffic
is something that makes everybody's
network administrator yell at them.
So if you can do this without actually
doing a full net service resolve on that,
you can use the streams get
net service code to do that.
So we're going to use this code.
We're going to use the
TCP server code now to take a
look at a basic HTTP server.
You want me to get that?
It subclasses TCP Server.
We're going to override the handle
new connection method again.
And we're going to do its
own HTTP connection object.
So rather than just using a
dictionary to manage our connections,
we'll use an actual full object
that's going to become the
delegate of these streams.
So every time a new
HTTP request comes in,
we'll get one of these
new connection objects.
And it inherits all the
other TCP server behavior.
So this will get published on Bonjour.
We'll see that.
It will do it on both v4 and v6.
And you'll be able to
connect that way as well.
So every time one of these
new connection comes in,
we're going to look at an
HTTP connection object.
So the server fires up.
It just listens for new connections.
A new connection comes in.
We create an HTTP connection object.
This will produce
HTTP server request objects.
And it will inform the
delegate about them.
So it has a delegate also.
It's going to offer to send
those responses over there.
The responses are processed in the
order that the requests were received.
Because that's what the
protocol says we have to do.
But they may not necessarily be the same.
It may not necessarily be the order
the delegate chooses to fulfill them.
So there may be some
additional tracking here.
We have some default behavior
built into this example.
That's pretty nice.
Basic get method processing is
done if no delegate is present.
And that's the default behavior.
So if you don't actually
assign a delegate,
we'll just do some
basic fulfillment here.
And this example actually,
specifically the HTTP connection class,
shows some more sophisticated
asynchronous handling.
And it involves buffering
up the bytes that come in.
And we'll see that as well.
The server now has...
It is subclass TCP server.
So we're not going to see a whole
lot of API from the BSD sockets
layer or from core foundation.
But in CF network,
we're going to be using CF HTTP message
refs as just a way to store things
in the server request objects.
And this URL will be seen a
little bit in order to set up
the document root for the server.
But it's not part of the networking code.
And the server just creates...uses all
of those to wrap these three classes.
So...
When an HTTP server fires up,
it's going to get a connection event.
So it's going to get an incoming
connection which consists of
somebody typing in something
into a browser and the browser is
going to make the network request.
At that point,
it creates an HTTP connection object.
That HTTP connection object is
handling all those bytes that are
being presented to it as a request for,
you know,
a GET or a HEAD request from HTTP.
When that request comes in,
it's going to service all of those bytes,
pick them up all off the wire,
collect them into an HTTP server
request object and send it off
to the delegate if one's present.
If it isn't present,
we'll actually do some
default processing for this.
So let's take a look at the
code and do a quick demo.
Close out our Cocoa Echo example
here and kill that.
So I fired up just a little
Cocoa HTTP server here.
And it says that it
started on port 49167.
So let's go over here to
Safari and take a look here.
If there were a Bonjour listing here,
you could click on it and you'd
see the Cocoa HTTP server.
You should be able to do that with the
code that's on your example code here.
But let's just take a quick
look at how this works.
If I go to localhost.com,
We've configured the document
root of this server to be root.
So we haven't implemented
any security on this.
So you can happily go ahead using this
thing the way it's configured right now
and get Etsy password off this computer.
I'm not going to show you that.
But I can look at Etsy host config,
let's say.
And we see that this actually
does return that file.
Apparently we're starting up a
bunch of things automatically.
Let's take a look at the code.
There are actually in http
server.h three classes declared.
The first is this http server class.
All this is,
it has a very small role in this code.
It just fires up and
listens for connections.
You'll see here that we actually override
the handle new connection method.
We have a little set document
root method here as well.
That's how we configure it to point at
a particular location on the hard drive.
We look at the interface
for http connection.
We've got some streams here.
That's what's going to be doing
the talking to the web browser or
the client that's talking to us.
We have some buffering going on,
an input stream,
an input buffer and an output buffer.
This is where we're going to keep
the bytes as we service them and then
when events come in on the stream,
that's when we'll actually
touch off the reads and writes.
There's some other bookkeeping here,
but we won't cover that.
And this HTTP server request object,
I'm not going to talk too much about
this because this is basically just a
model object to hold and encapsulate
the request as it's being processed.
So this will contain things like the body
and the header and things like that for
the actual handling of the HTTP messages.
So these are what get
handed off to the delegate
Let's take a look at HTTP Server.
We're going to handle
new connections here.
and HTTP Server just by
creating a new HTTP connection.
Setting the connections delegate
as the server's delegate.
And then just saying if the
delegate responds to the selector
HTTP did make new connection,
then we send that message off.
But at this point we've got
this HTTP connection around.
It's going to take care of doing
all the heavy lifting for us.
So let's take a look at that.
The streams are the delegate here and
when we get a stream handle event,
the input stream will tell us, "Hey,
I've got bytes available."
A get request is coming in.
So we go through and read as many bytes
as we can from that and then just go
in here to self-process incoming bytes.
And all processing incoming bytes does is
construct an HTTP server request object.
So it's building up bytes
as a request comes in.
For a big request,
it might come in in three or four reads.
So Process Incoming Bytes
really just goes through and
collects all of this information.
So it collects the headers,
the content length.
If it's a post,
it will actually collect all of that
body information although we're not going
to use that in this particular example.
And then once we've got a full request,
we create one of these server
request objects and we hand
it off to the delegate.
So the delegate is going to either
get--if there is a delegate,
it will get a chance to handle it.
If not, we'll do this default request
Okay, so we've gotten bytes,
we've built up the server request object,
we're going to hand it off to our
default request handling method.
Which really just sort of crawls
through the CFHGTV message ref and
here's the interesting bit here where
it's if method is equal to get or head.
So we've made it, we had a get or a head
request made of us.
We grab all those bytes,
copy some information out,
set up the response and just
try to write those bytes out.
And that's actually, I'm going
Let's see my note here.
So the default request handling,
that was this method here and then
That just queues up all
the bytes into a buffer.
So we've got them all set here,
but we haven't actually put them
back out to the outgoing wire.
So Safari,
the web browser that we're using,
hasn't actually gotten a
chance to see these bytes yet.
When an output stream
is available to write,
it has space available,
you'll get this has space available
event on the stream handle event.
And all that does is it
calls process outgoing bytes.
Process outgoing bytes just goes
through and says I've got all this data,
write as big a chunk
as I can and get out.
So it may actually take two or
three different writes to be
able to get all this data out.
So every time a new stream event
comes in that says I've got bytes,
I have space available,
I'm going to go ahead and
write those bytes out.
So we buffer the stuff up.
Every time a new event comes in,
we just write as many
bytes out as we can.
And that's really about it.
We do some cleanup for when an error
occurs or when the streams end,
but it's pretty straightforward as
far as the networking code goes.
So there are things to keep
in mind there about it.
But most of the work is going to be
touched off by stream events coming in.
So if I could have the slides back,
please.
This is not a complete HTTP server.
No, you cannot try and serve your
website off of this and expect
it to survive a slash dotting.
It hands off most of the
processing to the delegate.
So if there is a delegate,
it can do most of the heavy lifting,
populate the server request object,
and then allow that to be sent back
to the connection for processing.
So it doesn't do things like, you know,
it doesn't handle chunk transfer coding,
so you can't do stuff in series.
But if you do want to make this
into the next Apache killer,
first of all, more power to you.
Knock yourselves out.
RFC 2616 describes the HTTP 1.1 protocol.
So this server actually does
do some Keepa lifestyle stuff.
But this is, it's about as entertaining
reading as you might expect,
but it's where you have to go to do this.
So at this point,
I'd like to invite Doug Davidson up
on stage to talk about
updating your application.
He's going to do some
stuff for NSURL download.
Thank you, Chris.
So what we've just seen
covers how to handle general
networking at a fairly low level.
What I want to talk about is
how Cocoa makes it easy to deal
with some standard net protocols
at a rather higher level.
And naturally we have a sample
application to demonstrate this.
And the problem that we've chosen to
tackle is that of having an application
check for updates to itself over
the network and then download them.
And we're not going to deal
with all of that problem.
We're mostly ignoring questions
like when you schedule checking for
updates and how you actually install
the updated version once it arrives.
We're really just going to deal
with the networking aspects of this.
So what is the minimum that
you need to do updating?
Well, first of all,
you have to start somewhere.
So you're going to have
to have some net address,
some URL that's hard-coded
into your application.
And you're going to have to have
a server living at that address
for the lifetime of your app.
You will have to have built into your
1.0 version of the app some basic set
of policies for when and how to update.
You'll have to supply some version info
so you can determine whether to update.
If you use licensing,
you provide licensing
info as well possibly.
And some user interface to
present this to the user.
But of course, the critical question
for this session is,
what networking APIs are
you going to use?
As I said earlier,
what we want is something that will
allow us to deal with standard net
protocols at a fairly high level.
And what we're recommending here
is the use of the NSURL loading
classes in Foundation.
These are the classes that
WebKit uses when it loads a
web page or other resource.
So they're designed to deal with the
network as a modern browser does with
all the complexity that that entails.
But they make it simple
because almost all of it will
be dealt with automatically.
You deal only with the parts
you're specifically interested in.
What are the classes I'm talking about?
NSURL request, NSURL response,
NSURL connection, and NSURL download.
The protocols I handle, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP,
a few other minor ones,
but those are the major ones.
So you're probably already
familiar with NSURL,
which represents a general
URL with all the various
components that a URL can have.
Well, NSUR-Request starts with a URL,
but it also includes all the
other information that might go
into specifying a load request,
a timeout interval, caching policy for
HTTP requests in particular,
the request method, the headers,
the body.
Now, as I said,
most of this is going to be
generated automatically for you,
but there is a mutable subclass,
NSMutableUrlRequest that lets you
change any of this if you want to.
I'm not going to show that the
next portion of this talk will.
Then NSUR Response.
That represents the metadata associated
with a response to a load request.
It might come from cache,
it might come from the network.
This is things like the
URL that's finally loaded,
the MIME type, content length, encoding,
and so on and so forth.
So that's the metadata.
What about the data?
The data is the responsibility of the
class that actually does the loading.
And there are two of those,
NSURLConnection, and NSURLDownload.
Why two classes?
Well, NSURLConnection corresponds to the
standard browser operation of loading a
web page or other resource into memory.
NSURLDownload corresponds to
the alternative operation of
downloading a file to disk.
They have a number of differences,
some obvious and some subtle.
NSURLConnection, as I say,
downloads into memory.
NSURLDownload to a file on disk.
NSURLConnection can do caching.
NSURLDownload doesn't,
but it has other features like
the possibility of resumption
of interrupted downloads.
NSURLDownload is probably the best
choice if you have huge amounts of data,
for example.
And there are some other minor
differences you can look through
the documentation for those.
What I want to emphasize, though,
is that they both operate
fundamentally in the same way.
And that is they message their
delegate asynchronously for
all the various things that may
happen as a load request proceeds.
And the delegate responds to as few
or as many of those as it wishes.
So NSURL connection, for example,
sends the data directly to the delegate.
NSURL download sends the data
to a file on disk and then
tells the delegate about it.
Your responsibility as a client
of either of these classes is to
implement a delegate that will
handle whichever of the delegate
methods you are interested in.
There are a number of other
advanced topics that I'm
not going to go into today.
For those of you who are interested,
there's another session after lunch,
Best Practices in Networking,
that will discuss some of the more
interesting things that you may
encounter in real-world networks.
It's an excellent session.
I highly recommend it.
So how is the sample
application going to work?
The way we've chosen to implement this
is that the initial check to see if
there are updates available is made with
an NSURL connection using an HTTP URL.
And we've decided to encode the
version info for the current
running version of the application
in the query string of that URL.
Then we send it to the server that way.
The server then responds.
It's a very simple response.
If there is an update available,
the response contains a URL from which
the updated version is to be downloaded.
We present this to the user and
ask if the user wishes to update.
And if the user agrees,
then we use an NSURL download to
download the updated version of
the application from that URL.
It might be an HTTP URL.
It might be an FTP.
It's all handled the same
Now,
there's one thing I think I must mention,
that is, if you are going to do
something like this for real,
you do have to take
security into consideration.
My general recommendation is that this
is usually best handled end to end,
probably with some sort of digital
signature so that you can make sure,
however the update
arrives on the machine,
that you can verify it's authentic
before you try to use it.
Just as a caution.
Now,
let's confirm where we are on the stack.
We're using foundation
APIs to deal with the network,
and then our application
sits on top of those.
So now let's take a look at some code.
If we could go over to demo one.
It's very simple.
There's only one class that's going
to act as a delegate for both the
URL connection and the URL download.
Here's where we start off.
Here's our one hard-coded URL.
Did you notice that we're encoding
in the query string the current
version of the application to
send it to the server that way?
And when we start off,
when the user chooses
to check for updates,
we first of all create a
URL request with that URL.
And then URL connection
with that request.
And then we fire it off.
Now, as I said,
what's important are the delegate
methods for the URL connection.
And let's take a look at those.
So the first one is the
didReceiveResponse delegate method
when initial response comes back.
And we're just making a note of
that and changing our status string.
And then there's the did
receive data method that will
be sent when data arrives.
Now as I said,
the oral connection delivers the
data directly to the delegate.
We're the delegate.
We're responsible for it.
We hang on to it and we do it with
immutable data to which we append it.
And then finally,
one of two things will happen.
The load will either succeed,
finish loading, or it will fail,
fail with error.
And in either case,
we're going to present that to the user.
If it succeeded,
then we're going to look at the response
to the data we've accumulated and
see if it does represent the URL from
which we could download the update.
And if it did, we'll create that URL and
then we'll go and ask the user
whether they wish to download.
And if they do,
the process is very similar.
We'll create a URL request with that URL.
And then a URL download with
that request and fire it off.
And we set a location on the
disk for that file to go.
And again, the important things are
the delegate methods.
Again, we have a did receive
response delegate method.
When the initial response is received,
we'll make a note of that.
And then, as I said,
NSURLDownload sends the data to the file
and disk and tells the delegate about it.
Now, ordinarily here in this,
we have an indefinite progress indicator
showing that something is going on,
but while we're downloading the update,
we want to present a definite
progress indicator to show
the user how it's progressing.
So, the URL download just tells
us how many bytes came in.
We keep track of that and we compare the
total number of bytes that have come in
to the expected length from the header,
and that tells us the progress that
we can set on our progress indicator.
Then again,
ultimately one of two things can happen.
We either succeed or fail.
And in either case we
present that to the user.
So let's give this a try.
Here's our application.
Really,
it does almost nothing but update itself.
So in this case,
we've set it up so the user
chooses one to check for updates.
So let's try it.
We're connecting to our server.
I have a bit of a slow server here.
So there is an update available
and the choice is presented.
Shall we try to update?
No, let's go for it.
Okay.
Connecting, it's trying again.
The response has been received,
now it's getting data.
As the bytes come in,
we keep track of the number,
we increment the progress indicator,
and it proceeds up.
finished.
And actually,
the thing that we downloaded
here is a disk image.
And so it's been opened for us.
And so let's quit this
version of the application.
And
Go and look for version two.
Let's try launching it.
Oh, there it is.
Version two, we've succeeded.
Okay, so let's go back to the slides.
Let me summarize.
The NSUR Loading Classes
Foundation make it easy for you
to deal with some standard network
protocols at a fairly high level.
NSUR Connection, NSUR Download.
Your responsibility as a client of
either of these classes is to implement
a delegate that will handle as few or as
many of the delegate methods as you wish.
So now I'd like to turn the
stage over to Chris Kane,
who's going to talk to you
about Soap in the final portion.
Thank you, Doug.
Soap.
Buzzword probably many of you have
heard over the last few years.
Soap is a framework for exchanging
messages on the Internet.
That's all it is.
Now I'm using the word framework here
in a way that we're not typically
using it here at this conference.
When we talk about a framework,
we talk about a library and its APIs.
In the case I'm using it here,
framework means the W3C has defined
a spec which lays out the ground
rules by which a sender of a
message and a receiver of a message
must follow in order to be able
to communicate back and forth.
So that's the sense in which
I'm using framework here.
Now, I don't have nearly enough time to
go through and actually explain Soap.
We would need probably several hours.
And frankly, it's pretty boring stuff to
get down into all the details.
So I'm going to be covering
things at a very sort of fast
and high level here right now.
So, Soap is a type of message
exchange protocol.
And the typical use you find today
on the Internet is that a web service
will expose its various functionalities
as Soap messages which you can send
to the service in order to invoke
the service and produce some result.
For example, Google.com.
This web search site offers a
Soap API which you can use to
send a message to Google and do a
search just like you would by say
going to Google.com in Safari.
Now, we could put Soap underneath
distributed objects in Cocoa.
You know, one could implement using
the DO transport layer APIs,
Soap as a transport layer.
But in fact,
that would be a lot of work and
really wouldn't buy you very much.
So I'm not going to be
showing you that today.
And of course,
one can use the Web Services Core APIs in
the Core Services Framework.
And those are there, you know,
fully realized in Panther and Tiger,
introduced originally in Jaguar.
So, you know,
if you're doing Soap things,
one might typically go and
look at those first in order
to implement their Soap thing.
But I'm not going to use those
either because those have been
shown before and there's plenty of
documentation on the web for those.
Now, SOAP via HTTP and using XML is what
one may typically think of as SOAP.
If you have experience
with the SOAP protocol,
that's what you may think of SOAP as.
A blob of XML sent over HTTP and
you get an HTTP response back
with another blob of XML,
which is the SOAP response.
But in fact,
SOAP is a very open and flexible API and
this is probably because it was trying
to serve many different masters and a
big huge committee of people who all
wanted it to do various different things
and so they had to make it very open.
And the end result is that, no, XML is,
you know, the text version of XML,
XML 1.0,
is not actually required for Soap.
You can use a binary form of XML,
for example.
HTTP is not required
to do Soap messaging.
You can use some other protocol or just
be writing raw XML bytes on a socket,
for example.
So, the, as a client of a web service,
the impact of this is that, well,
you just have to do whatever
the web service has laid out as,
here's how you contact us.
The Google web service does
use XML 1.0 format messages,
and we'll see an example of that,
over HTTP.
But a web service could decide
that it wants to do something else.
And as a client,
you simply have to do whatever the web
service has laid out as the rules for
contacting and using the web service.
In our particular example today,
we're going to simply cover
Soap Messaging with Objective-C.
That is, I'm going to wrap the Soap
Messaging in an Objective-C class.
On the server side,
if we can go to the demo machine,
I'm not going to actually
show you--oh wait,
no, let me go back to the slides.
I forgot to explain this.
I'm not going to actually show you
the server side of things today,
but all I did was reuse
the HTTP server example.
On the client side,
as you can see in the slides,
all I have is a simple SoapAdder class,
and the reason for that name
will become clear in a moment.
And all it does is use the NSXMLDocument
class to actually parse and serialize
the XML that comprises the Soap message.
And it uses the NSURL connection
and its related classes to do the
HTTP component of the messaging.
Now if we could go to the demo machine.
I called it the Soap Adder Class because,
in fact, all it does, this example does,
is take two arguments, two numbers,
send them off to the server and
all the service does is add the
two numbers and return the result.
So it's an extremely trivial activity.
What I'm going to show you,
I'm going to try to go through
the code in the order in which
the execution proceeds here.
So we begin with the
client program in main.
Well the first thing I do
is I make sure I have enough
arguments on the command line.
This is a very trivial tool.
But the interesting stuff begins here.
I create my SoapAdder class,
an instance of my SoapAdder class, and
Parse the arguments off the command line.
Call the method add to result in error,
which is the method I created to
encapsulate the logic of sending
the soap message off and getting
the reply back from the server.
So at this point,
the main function is a client
of this API and to the client,
the client doesn't know
where this operation,
this add operation is going to go on.
All that logic is encapsulated and
hidden off in the Soap Adder class.
If I get success back from this method,
that is I get a response,
I simply log it out.
Otherwise I log the error out
and then the program exits.
So there's really nothing much to that.
The Soap Adder Class is
very straightforward.
Again, nothing much to it either.
I take the two arguments,
which I decided to call doubles,
and I return a double by reference.
I return a Boolean indicating
success or failure.
And if there is a failure,
that is if the return value is no,
then there will be an NSError returned
by reference in the last out parameter.
What do I do in SoapAddr?
Well, the only thing I did in the client
was I created a SoapAddr and
then I sent it the add method.
When I create a Soap Adder,
I need to look up the web service or,
you know, get access to the web service.
Now, normally, for, say,
using the Google web service,
you wouldn't be using Bonjour to look up,
you know, Google.
You'd just simply know, oh,
I need to use this particular URL.
In this particular case,
I'm going to start my
server on the local machine,
and I need to get the port number and the
address of that to construct a NSURL that
I can use with NSURL connection.
So I'm not going to go
through the details of,
you know, resolving the net,
creating and resolving
the net service here.
I'm just going to skip
quickly through that.
And the main point is that the main
product of the init method is simply
to create the URL with the host
name and port number inside of it.
The Add Method is where
the interesting stuff,
if there's anything interesting here,
where the interesting stuff goes on.
I'm using a very,
very simple technique here.
I'm going to marshal my own arguments.
I'm going to send the
message off on the Internet.
I'm going to unpack then the arguments,
the result when it comes back.
So I'm simply using a template
string here to marshal my arguments
into a Soap compatible message.
And so, you know,
I don't have time to go through
all the details of what comprises
a Soap compatible message.
But the main point here
is that here is the body,
the actual goodies in the message.
And what I'm going to do is I'm
going to invoke the method name,
add service on my particular
server and pass it to parameters.
The %f's then are going to be substituted
with those two double arguments
that I passed to the add method.
I'm using an NSXML document
here to simply
How to serialize the
XML into the NNS data,
which I'm going to write out
then as part of the HTTP request.
So I created an NSMutable URL request
and I set its method to post.
I want to include a body,
which is the Soap message in this case,
with the request.
So I need to use the post method.
I set the body, which is my data.
That's what I got back
from the NSXML document.
And because there's a
body on the HTTP request,
I need to make sure that there's
a content length header field set
properly with the length of the
data on the NSMutable URL request.
So I do that here.
Then I create an NSURL connection.
Actually,
I'm using a little tiny subclass with
some convenience methods I added.
But basically this is
an NSURL connection.
I create it with the request.
I wait until it has a response.
Creating the NSURL request
sends the request off as part of
creating the NSURL connection.
I'm waiting for the response,
and this is one of the little
convenience methods that I've added.
Running the run loop while I wait.
When I get a response back,
then I use NSXML document to
parse out the data for me.
Use XPath to go and retrieve
the particular node out
of the XML that I want.
In this case, it's a node buried three
levels deep called EX_result.
And the result simply contains a
string which is the added number.
This is a string representation
of the added number.
So when I get a node back
from the XPath successfully,
I go and get its object value and get
this double value out of that string.
So let me,
well let's actually take a look here.
We've got a little bit of time.
Let's take a look here
at my URL connection.
So what do I do here?
Well, basically, my URL connection,
I just created a little subclass in
order to collect the data for me and
keep track of when I get a response.
So what do I do here?
You saw in the previous segment that
Doug did the delegate methods of
NSURL connection being implemented.
Well, my little subclass implements
the delegate methods for me.
And as data blocks come in here with
the did receive data delegate method,
I simply append them,
accumulate them in an
NSMutable data in memory.
When I get the did finish loading method,
delegate method, then what I do is I just
set my finished flag to yes.
So then has response will return yes.
Oh yeah, where is terminal?
So let's go over to my project here.
I've got a example already built.
Let's blow this up.
So I'm simply going to start my server.
Now my server,
I just took the HTTP server example
that you saw half an hour ago,
and I slapped a little, you know,
Soap server on top,
which all it does is use NSXML document
to parse the data in the Soap message,
add the two numbers,
and create the Soap response.
Let's see, what did I do wrong here?
Oh, I didn't see the--
Okay,
so server started up and client program,
let's add 2.3 and 3.25
and comes back with 5.55,
the sum of the two numbers.
Nothing very interesting in that.
In fact, I've just spent now, what,
a few million cycles to compute what
normally you can do in about 10 or so,
add two floating point numbers.
And, you know,
obviously that's not a very
compelling example of a web
service in and of itself.
But, you know, serves for the purposes of
my example because it's very
simple and straightforward.
Let me just quickly look at, let's see,
do I have it here?
Yes.
Do Google search.
Here's an example of the Soap,
a Soap message which is invoking
the Google Web Search service.
Here we have the body, again,
of the message.
And so this is the, you know,
sort of method invocation, if you will.
And the method name, you know,
or the function that you're
trying to invoke here is
the Do Google Search method.
Here are the parameters.
And of course, you know,
they've named the parameters
very mnemonically,
you know, key and queue and, you know,
who knows what LR and IER and so on.
That's all part of their documentation.
You simply have to, you know,
provide the data they want in the,
you know, format that they want.
But this would be, you know,
this is fairly straightforward.
Again, you can see where you would just
substitute the parameters in here
that you wanted to search for in,
you know,
the same kind of way that I did it,
if you were just trying to be fast and
loose and quick and dirty about it,
as I was.
So let's go back to the slides.
So, you know,
obviously my example could be abstracted
further and generalized further.
I just had the one method,
very uninteresting, Soap Service.
Nothing much to that.
I used a technique,
the marshalling my own arguments
and parsing the return values,
right out of the 1980s.
There's nothing interesting in that.
I didn't use XDR,
and I'm not using SunRPC here.
I'm using XML and Soap,
which are technologies
of the 21st century,
but otherwise.
It's basically the same kind
of thing that one has seen
for the last two decades.
It's just in new clothing.
The key point though is that it's really
the underlying technologies that help me
do this that eliminated most of my work.
If I didn't have
NSXML document to do that,
if I had to go down to an
XML parser API like a SACS parser
API like NSXML parser and
do all the XML parsing myself,
would I have done that
example the way I did it?
No, I wouldn't have done that because
it would have been a lot of work.
I would have done something else like
use the Web Services Core API which
does the XML parsing and takes
care of all those details for you.
Of course, the Web Services API,
if you're familiar with it,
will also generate stubs for
you in C and Objective-C.
I'm not sure if it generates
any C++ stubs today,
but it'll generate stubs for
you from the so-called WSDL.
You can use the WSDL descriptions
of Web Services if you
have such a description.
[Transcript missing]
Before I conclude finally and go to QA,
I want to remind you, as Doug did,
about the Best Practices in
Network Programming talk,
just down the hall here in
Presidio after lunch at 2:00.